---
layout:     post
title:      "Responsive Web Design"
subtitle:   "RWD using Media Queries"
date:       2015-08-29 01:43:00
author:     "Kevin Chiang"
header-img: ""
---

<h1>What is Responsive Web Design? (RWD)</h1>
<p>Responsive web design is a way to deliver web pages in variable sizes
so that they can be viewed on a computer, tablet, and mobile device all at the same time.</p>
<p>There are various ways to create a responsive web page, and I recently learned how to 
do it using media queries.</p>

<h1>What is a Media Query?</h1>
<p>A media query is a CSS technique that uses <pre><code>@media</code></pre> to
include certain CSS properties only if the condition its given is true.</p>

<h1>Media Query example</h1>
<p>In a recent project, I was trying to make a fixed image on the right side
of my page disappear when I made the page smaller. I wanted to do this
because the image was a nonessential feature to the functionality of the application.</p>

<p>In this example, the <pre><code>#right-container</code></pre> contained my
nonessential image feature, and the <pre><code>#left-container</code></pre>
contained the information that I wanted to take up the entire page if the
page was minimized. Here is the initial styling for those elements:</p>

<pre><code>
#left-container{
  height:100%;
  width: 50%;
  display: inline-block;
  float: left;
}

#right-container{
  height:100%;
  display: inline-block;
  width: 50%;
  float: right;
  position: fixed;
}
</code></pre>

<p>If you can imagine, these containers show up on the page side by side
and are of equal height and width. When the page is minimized to a 
certain size, I wanted it to only show the left container. Therefore, I
had to add a media query:</p>

<pre><code>
@media only screen and (max-width: 800px) {
  #left-container{
    width: 100%;
  }
  #right-container{
    width: 0%;
  }
}
</code></pre>

<p>This media query states that if the width of the screen is
minimized to under 800 pixels, then we will set the width of the left
container to 100% of its parent, and the right container to 0%. This
would effectively hide the right container and let the left
container take its place.</p>
